From: "J Duane Gibson" <jdgibson@mmto.org>
Date: November 2, 2006 11:05:10 AM MST
To: tim@mmto.org
Subject: BSUM input for Sep-Oct, 2006
Reply-To: jdgibson@mmto.org

Tim -

Here's some input for the bsum in outline form.  Let me know if you need
more input or portions rewritten.

Thanks, Duane.

+++

BSUM input for Sep-Oct, 2006:

Tasks:

1) Inclusion of offsets in hexapod operation:
    A new approach to hexapod operation occurred during the past two
months.  All hexapod positions are now the result of up to ten
distinct types of offsets.  These offsets include:
     i) operator offsets.
    ii) base offsets,
   iii) instrument offsets,
   iv) wavefront sensor offsets,
    v) guider offsets,
   vi) OSS temperature offsets,
   vii) M1 temperature offsets,
   viii) flexure offsets,
   ix) M1 spherical offsets, and
   x) user offsets.

This new approach allows better monitoring and logging of contributions to
the final hexapod position from different sources, such as thermal and
elevation effects, guiders and wavefront sensors.  Instrument-specific
information is now included in calculation of these offsets.

    a) Tim calculated new parameters for secondary and instrument offsets.
 These parameters had previously been used in the "hexpredict" script.
    b) Tom implemented new code in the hexapod crate, including position
calculation from the offsets and automatic updating of thermal and
elevation offsets.  The remote protocol for the hexapod crate was
expanded.
    c) I created a web-based, hexoffsets GUI for normal operation and
engineering use.   This GUI will replace the existing "hexgui".  A
"hexpods" web page had already been created to replace the "Pods" GUI.
    d) Dallan has created a web-based "hexlimits" GUI.
    e) Modifications were made to the setting server to accommodate the
new instrument parameters.
    f) Modification was made to MySQL tables and miniserver scripts to log
the new parameters.
    g) New web pages were created and existing web pages modified to
display the new offsets in tabular and graphical form.

2) Hexapod/Secondary support debugging:
    a) Extensive analysis of f/5 hexapod background data is being done by
Brian C., Ricardo O., and others to understand possible shifts in the
hexapod support system.  High resolution (1Hz) hexapod data was
collected and analyzed to quantify hexapod behavior.
    b) Evaluation was also done of the f/9 hexapod and secondary following
the recent re-aluminization.   New software limits were mapped for
this hexapod.  Prior this mapping, it was thought that the f/9 hexapod
was unable to contact any part of the telescope hub.  Software limits
are now necessary to prevent this contact.

3) Ongoing creation of new and modification of existing engineering web
pages:
     a) cell error log display, the "rerr" GUI, was converted to a
ajax-enabled web page.
     b) web pages were created to present thermal movies of primary mirror
temperature data, creating images on-the-fly from E-series
thermocouple data obtained from MySQL background logs.
    c) Additional work has been done on XY scatterplot web pages for
presenting MMT background log data to engineers and other end users.
    d) Various web pages were created and modified for possible use on new
control room monitors.  These web pages include weather,
environmental, and systems status information.  Final layout for
displays in these new monitors is underway.
    e) Modifications were made to PHP scripts used to generate RRDTool
images from RRDTool databases with the inclusion of additional
parameters.
    f) Additional functionality was added to the "Miniserver" and
"xajaxMMT" PHP classes.  These modifications include new methods for
communication with the cell crate using an ASCII protocol.  Work in
underway by Skip in generating new cell GUI's to replace the existing
windex GUIs.
    g) PHP classes are also being developed to generalize the PHP/MySQL
interface to background logs and for plotting of this background log
data.
    h) An inferred roof dewpoint is now being calculated and displayed for
operator use.

4) Project management software, specifically "dotproject", has been
installed for evaluation by the MMT staff.

5) Software group attended the ADASS conference.  (Betty was on organizing
committee; Grant and Tim led field trips.)
